%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\section{\label{sec:History-6-3}Development Release Series 6.3}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

This is the second development release series of Condor.

It contains numerous enhancements over the 6.0 stable series.
For example:

\begin{itemize}

\item 
Condor DAGMan is dramatically more reliable and efficient, and offers
a number of new features.

\end{itemize}

The 6.3 series has many other improvements over the 6.2 series, and
may be available on newer platforms.  The new features, bugs fixed,
and known bugs of each version are described below in detail.


%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\subsubsection{\label{sec:New-6-3-1}Version 6.3.1}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

\begin{itemize}

\item
More Condor DAGMan improvements and bug fixes:

\begin{itemize}

\item
Added a new event to the Condor userlog at the completion of a POST
script.  This allows DAGMan, during recovery, to know which POST
scripts have finished succesfully, so it no longer has to re-run them
all to make sure.

\item
Implemented separate \Arg{-MaxPre} and \Arg{-MaxPost} options to limit
the number of simultaneously running PRE and POST scripts.  The
\Arg{-MaxScripts} option is still available, and is equivalent to
setting both \Arg{-MaxPre} and \Arg{-MaxPost} to the same value.

\item
Fixed a bug whereby DAGMan would clean up its lock file without
creating a rescue file when killed with SIGTERM.

\item
DAGMan no longer aborts the DAG if it encounters executable error or
job aborted events in the userlog, but rather marks the corresponding
DAG nodes as ``failed'' so the rest of the DAG can continue.

\end{itemize}

\end{itemize}


%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\subsubsection{\label{sec:New-6-3-0}Version 6.3.0}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

\begin{itemize}

\item
Many Condor DAGMan improvements and bug fixes:

\begin{itemize}

\item
PRE and POST scripts now run asynchronously, rather than synchronously
as in the past.  As a result, DAGMan now supports a \Arg{-MaxScripts}
option to limit the number of simultaneously running PRE and POST
scripts.

\item
Whether or not POST scripts are always executed after failed jobs is
now configurable with the \Arg{-NoPostFail} argument.

\item
Added a \Arg{-r} flag to \Condor{submit\_dag} to submit DAGMan to a
remote \Condor{schedd}.

\item
Made the arguments to \Condor{submit\_dag} case-insensitive.

\item
Fixed a variety of bugs in DAGMan's event handling, so DAGMan should
no longer hang indefinitely after failed jobs, or mistake one job's
userlog events for those of another.

\item
DAGMan's error handling and logging output have been substantially
clarified and improved.  For example, DAGMan now prints a list of
failed jobs when it exits, rather than just saying ``some jobs
failed''.

\item
Jobs submitted by a \Condor{dagman} job now have \AdAttr{DAGManJobId}
and \AdAttr{DAGNodeName} in the job classad.

\item
Fixed a \Condor{submit\_dag} bug preventing the submission of DAGMan
Rescue files.

\item
Improved the handling of userlog errors (less crashing, more coping).

\item
Fixed a bug when recovering from the userlog after a crash or reboot.

\item
Fixed bugs in the handling of \Arg{-MaxJobs}.

\end{itemize}

\item
Added a \Arg{-a line} argument to \Condor{submit} to add a line to the
submit file before processing (overriding the submit file).

\item
Added a \Arg{-dag} flag to \Condor{q} to format and sort DAG jobs
sensibly under their DAGMan master job.

\end{itemize}

\noindent Known Bugs:

\begin{itemize}

\item None.

\end{itemize}
